TAU-CSC 309 — Troubleshooting and Repairs of Computers
Time: 2.5 Hours | Course Unit: 3 Units
Instruction: Answer Question ONE and any other THREE (3) Questions

QUESTION ONE (30 marks)
(a) Explain the procedure for activating the Windows operating system and Microsoft Office applications. (5 marks)
(b) Outline the steps in installing Windows 10 on a new SSD. (5 marks)
(c) Explain how to check for and install missing drivers after OS installation. (5 marks)
(d) Explain the 3-2-1 backup rule. (5 marks)
(e) Define backup and list three methods of performing data backup. (5 marks)
(f) Outline the steps involved in the troubleshooting process. (5 marks)

QUESTION TWO (20 marks)
(a) Explain the function of a POST card. (5 marks)
(b) Describe how airflow and cooling affect PC performance and longevity. (5 marks)
(c) What is the CMOS battery, and what issues can arise if it becomes faulty? (5 marks)
(d) Identify four tools used in cleaning computer systems and explain how each tool is used. (5 marks)

QUESTION THREE (20 marks)
(a) Discuss the difference between volatile and non-volatile memory, giving examples. (5 marks)
(b) List five common hardware faults and state the possible solutions to each. (5 marks)
(c) Describe the steps involved in installing a new RAM module in a desktop PC. (5 marks)
(d) Mention four causes of software faults and state the possible solutions to each. (5 marks)

QUESTION FOUR (20 marks)
(a) Describe the function of BIOS/UEFI during system startup. (5 marks)
(b) Explain the role of POST and what might happen if it fails. (5 marks)
(c) Explain how beep codes can help identify hardware issues. (5 marks)
(d) Define preventive maintenance and give two examples specific to PC care. (5 marks)

QUESTION FIVE (20 marks)
(a) State three differences between preventive and corrective maintenance. (5 marks)
(b) Identify five components of a Hard Disk Drive (HDD) and explain the function of each component. (5 marks)
(c) Describe three safety precautions that must be taken during disassembly. (5 marks)
(d) Discuss how airflow and cooling affect PC performance and longevity. (5 marks)
